---
layout: post
title:  "A not-so-short intro."
date:   2016-04-18 05:29:48 -0700
description: I'm like, "hey, what's up, hello?"
categories: blog
---


> "Design can be art. Design can be aesthetics. Design is so simple, that's why it is so complicated."
>
> Paul Raud

Hi! My name is Doreen Trinh and I'm glad that we've found each other. I'm a junior web developer that enjoys the creative process and the technology behind web development. In my spare time, you can find me hiking in the woods, discovering new eateries in the city or trying out 3 coffee shops a day. I'm serious. <small>I have a drinking problem.. with coffee.</small><br>
<small>(Side note, in case you were wondering: my favorite coffee shops are <a href="http://www.betterbuzzcoffee.com/">Better Buzzed Coffee</a>, <a href="http://www.yelp.com/biz/veronese-gallery-cafe-fullerton-2">Veronese Gallery Cafe</a> and <a href="http://www.portolacoffeelab.com/">Portola Coffee Lab</a>)</small>

A little bit more about me? Ever since I was young, web development has always intrigued me; I think I started around the peak of the MySpace era. It started out as, "Hey! This is neat. I can't believe I was able to do that."

<h1>About the theme</h1>
It practically became a hobby of mine to tinker on my portfolio site. It's undergone numerous iterations, and I'm pretty sure I've gone through at least five reiterations with this version. On the bright side, I've always learned something new with each version, whether it be a nice tip in the UX realm or a new code snippet.

When I decided that I wanted to write a blog.

<h2>Here's what is it made of</h2>

- Built with <a href="http://jekyllrb.com/">Jekyll</a>
- Hosted on <a href="https://pages.github.com/">GitPages</a>
- Powered with HTML5, SASS and jQuery
- Some frustration included


<h2>Jekyll vs. Wordpress</h2>
"Why didn't you use Wordpress?" was a common question among my colleagues when it came to building this site. Don't get me wrong: Wordpress is a great CMS, but I felt that it was overkill for my needs. It's filled with bloated code, security holes, and it's a slight nightmare to architect anything without compromise. For a simple portfolio site, WordPress was overly complicated.

On the other hand, Jekyll makes developing and blogging <i>ridiculously</i> easy. Jekyll has zero limitations; it doesn't compromise front-end development since it doesn't confine you with codes that you didn't write. Instead of following a strict folder structure (<i><small>looking at you, Wordpress</small></i>), I can set up my project however I want, construct my pages and posts to look how I want, and more. All of this is possible in WordPress or any other CMS, but you have to take a ton of extra steps to do so.

<small>TL;DR: I started out with coding static websites anyhow, so I much prefer building my own portfolio site from the ground up than to strip away code and navigate through databases. Jekyll allows you total control while Wordpress provides code bloat. Best of all, GitPages provides free hosting for static websites.</small>

<h1>Process</h1>
Here's my multi-tracked thought process when it came to crafting this site.

- Drink a cup of coffee
- Create a wireframe on Illustrator
- Flesh out each section on <a href="atom.io">Atom</a>
